

CS1210 Homework 10

**Homework 10**  
CS1210 Computer Science 1  
Due Friday, May 5, by 11:59pm  
10 points  
  
1\. Extend your HW 9 Q2 program so that it displays a map showing
locations of Twitter tweets and Flickr photos matching user-specific
search terms. The program should:

  - have a GUI that enables the user to enter a location and search
    terms
  - query Twitter and Flickr to gather tweets and photos based on the
    search terms and the location.
  - display a static map with markers showing the locations of the
    tweets and photos returned by the search.
  - provide a way for users to view the tweets. E.g. you could place a
    Label or similar widget somewhere on your GUI and display the
    "current" tweet on it, where current corresponds to one of the
    mapped tweets. The marker corresponding to that "current" tweet
    should look different than other markers. Users might then acccess
    other tweets though "Next Tweet"/"Previous Tweet" buttons.
  - provide a way to open a browser displaying the web page
    corresponding to URLs embedded in the tweets.
  - provide a way for users to view the Flickr photos. E.g. you might
    add an additional Label or Canvas widget on the GUI and display the
    "current" photo on it. Like for tweets, the marker corresponding to
    that "current" photo should look different than other markers.

***Important enabling steps:***

1.  You need a twitter account (<https://twitter.com/signup>) for this
    assignment.
2.  Once you've done that you need to create/register a Twitter app. Do
    that here: <https://dev.twitter.com/apps>
3.  You need to be able to import oauth2 module (python-oauth2) in order
    to properly connect to Twitter using the Oauth secure authorization
    protocol. There are two options for this (the first being *far*
    simpler for most people):
      - follow [these instructions](oauthNoInstall.html). This approach
        is easy and should work for everyone; the only "bad" thing about
        it is that it doesn't "really" install the oauth2 and other
        packages in a standard Python place where they'd be available
        for future use by other Python programs you might write.
      - If you will use your own machine and want to
        "properly"/permanently install the module, download the zip
        available here:
        [here](https://github.com/joestump/python-oauth2) and follow the
        installation instructions on that page. Note: if you use the lab
        machines in MacLean Hall, you cannot choose this option. You
        must use the first option above.
4.  You will also need a Flickr API key. You can get one
    [here](https://www.flickr.com/services/apps/create/). It is a quick
    process, and it's easy to use Flick's API once you have a key.

**Other notes:**

For searching Twitter, use (and modify) the sample Twitter code provided
with Lecture 41 (April 28).